---
title: "April 14, 2024"
bio: "Working on Projects CCC-Helper & LAEP Chatbot"
priority1: "LAEP Chatbot"
priority2: "Start of CCC-Helper"
priority3: "Finish Intro to Security Lab"
---

# April 14, 2024

- Today, I will spend most of time working on my coding projects. I will also finish the Security Lab assignment.

## LAEP Project (Working on Structure of the App)

- I wanted to do some extra research on the structure of my application to see if it will perform well and minimize render times.

  - **Context Variables:** I learned that my use of context variables can use `useMemo()` to ensure that value is cached.

- I debated re-organizing the structure of the application but chose not to due to how I don't see any problems with it.

## Start of CCC-Helper Project

- Today, I began the CCC-Helper project which is just re-doing my previous summer project [https://www.ccc-sep.com/](https://www.ccc-sep.com/) in React / Django using best practices.

- It works like this:

  1. **HomePage UI:** On homepage users enter their year, school to transfer to, and major
  2. **Assist API Integration:** Backend finds Classes they need to take and puts their classes in dropdown menus in a sidebar along with the classes need for general ed and a search bar to search for classes. Users have multiple options on this page.
  3. **Generate Schedule:** The student can generate their schedule in an instant by retrieving a previous schedule that has been verified and stored in a database or by an algorithm that creates the schedule at a 95% success rate
  4. **Find Earned Degrees:** The users can also find the degrees they've earned by the classes they have in their current schedule.
  5. **Find Nearly-Completed Degrees:** Users find degrees they are close to completing and the classes they have left to complete them.
  6. **Gen Ed Completion:** The users can also see what areas they have satisfied in their General Ed.
  7. **Database Storage:** Users can upload their created schedule into a database with a password
  8. **Error Reporting:** Users can submit any errors they encounter; I will receive an E-mail if this happens.

- The features I want to add to this include the following:
  1. **Authorization with Firebase:** Users can store schedules on their account and share schedules with each other.
  2. **AI Chatbot Counselor:** Powered by OpenAI API, a chatbot will be able to communicate with users.
  3. **A Cleaner UI using ShadCN UI:** Utilizing ShadCN, I aim to make a cleaner UI.

## Intro to Computer Security Lab

- I finished the lab today, where the last task was measuring the performance between public and private key encryptions.

- I learned that RSA encryption is drastically slower than AES encryption.

## Conclusion

- Today was an 9/10 productivity-wise. I got a lot of work done in all the projects I worked on!

- **The Good:**

  - I woke up at 5:30AM again and I began working on the LAEP Project. I also got a great start on the CCC-Helper, and I believe this is going to be a great project that I will open-source.

- ## **The Bad:**

  - There wasn't anything too bad today, however, I could have improved on how productive my morning was. Usually the mornings are when I get the most work done, but today I was slow to begin work.

## Schedule for Tomorrow

**6:00AM - 7:00AM:** Finish up blog posts for the last two days

**7:00AM - 9:00AM:** Practice TypeScript

**9:00AM - 11:00AM:** Work on the CCC-SEP Project

**12:00PM - 2:00PM:** Intro to SWE Lecture & Lab

**2:00PM - 4:30PM:** LAEP Project

**5:00PM - 6:00PM:** LAEP Meeting

**10:00PM:** Sleep
