---
title: "April 12, 2024"
bio: "LAEP Advisor Meeting and Mentoring"
priority1: "LAEP Advisor Meeting"
priority2: "Intro to SWE Lecture"
priority3: "Mentoring"
---

# April 12, 2024

- Today, I have scheduled a meeting with my advisor to talk about the next steps for the LAEP chatbot. I also have an old friend who got accepted into CalPoly SLO as a transfer, so I will be showing him around campus and giving my advice on how to prepare for the transition.

## Intro to Computer Security Lecture

- Today's lecture was on REST APIs. We learned about different HTTP Methods, HTTP status codes, Express routes, and request/response objects.

  - These were all concepts I was already familiar with, however, it was a great refresher.

## LAEP Advisor Meeting

- This was a very helpful meeting, and I gained a lot of great new features to work on. Here is the roadmap of the items we need to complete.

  1. Authentication: Allowing only CalPoly students and advisors to use the chatbot.
  2. Database implementation: Storing data on user's such as role (student/faculty), interests, etc.
  3. AI mode to check student proposals and identify any missing parts.
  4. Web Scraping data on advisors on CalPoly website.
  5. Utilizing agents to fill out forms of advisor information such as availability, areas of interests, recent research activities, etc. through communicating with the chatbot.

- Another helpful part in the meeting was that my advisor informed me of a class I could take to do extra research on this current LAEP project. Since, I am only allowed to work 20 hours on this project due to LAEP restrictions, this class allows me to meet up with my advisor and discuss topics of interest.

  - My advisor agreed to be my instructor for this class, and if my late registration is accepted, then this class will also count towards credit for my degree!

- **LAEP Current Progress:** [Watch the Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6PKnDmHtL2o&ab_channel=CureMusic)

## Mentoring

- After my LAEP advisor meeting, I met with my old friend from Community College on campus. I showed him around the Computer Science building, and I also showed him the classes he would take once he transferred.
  - Tips I gave him to gain an internship:
    - Build a portfolio of projects and upload them to GitHub.
    - Begin practicing Leetcode / Codewars problems.
    - Begin to learn full-stack development. Start with Vanilla JS, then learn front-end frameworks like react
    - Code every day

## Conclusion

- Today was a 7/10 productivity-wise. While I didn't complete that many tasks, I successfully accomplished the mission of the day, which was to prepare my self for the upcoming days.

- **The Good:**

  - I had a great meeting with my advisor and gained a lot of new ideas.
  - I spent time mentoring a friend and preparing him for the transition to CalPoly.
  - I went to the gym and slept early at 10:30PM.

- **The Bad:**
  - While today's goal did not consist of any technical work, I still wish I did some school work, so I can have less for this weekend.

## Schedule for Tomorrow

**6:00AM - 7:00AM:** Finish up the blog posts for the previous 2 days

**8:00AM - 10:00AM:** Finish Intro to Security Lab

**10:00PM - 11:00AM:** Work on Intro to SWE Lab

**11:00AM - 2:00PM:** Work on LAEP Project

**2:30PM - 4:30PM:** Start the CCC-SEP Project

**5:00PM - 6:30PM:** Gym

**10:00PM:** Sleep
