---
title: "April 9, 2024"
bio: "Working on School Assignments"
priority1: "Intro to Security Lecture"
priority2: "Running errands"
---

# April 9, 2024

- Today, I will focus on my intro to computer security class. I will also work on...

## Intro to Computer Security Lecture

- In today's lecture we learned about Symmetric key cryptography, block/stream ciphers, and block cipher modes.

- **Symmetric key cryptography:** A method of encryption where the same key is used to encrypt and decrypt the message.

  - Since the same key is used for encryption and decryption, secure key management practices are crucial for confidentiality.

**Block & Stream ciphers:**

- **Block Ciphers:** Encrypt data in fixed-size blocks (e.g. 128 bits for AES). Ideal for encrypting data of known, fixed sizes where data can be segmented into blocks like disk and file encryption.

- **Stream Ciphers:** Encrypt plaintext one bit/byte at a time. Ideal for data lengths that are unpredictable or continuous such as encrypting data streams in telecommunications and network security (TLP).

- **Differences:** Stream ciphers are used in real-time data processing due to their continuous flow of encryption a byte at a time. Block ciphers can be useful when the data is known before hand and can be divided into chunks.

**Block Cipher Modes:**

1. **Electronic Codebook (ECB):** The simplest mode of operation where each plaintext is encrypted independently w/ the same key.
   - Security Concern: Can reveal patterns in the plain text making it unsuitable for most applications.
2. **Cipher Block Chaining (CBC):** Each plaintext block is XORed w/ the previous cipher-text block.
   - An initialization vector (IV) is used for the 1st block and this mode introduces dependencies between each block
   - Advantages: Repeated text gets mapped to different encrypted data.
   - Security Concern: Vulnerable to padding oracle attacks and byte flipping attacks.
3. **Cipher Feedback (CFB):** Turn a block cipher into a a stream cipher.
   - Bit Stream added to the output of block cipher as feedback for next stage.
4. **Output Feedback (OFB):**
   - Similar to CFB, except the ouput of a cipher block is feedback for next stage.
   - Ideal for noisy channels
5. **Counter (CTR):** A stream cipher that encrypts counter value rather than a feedback value.
   - Random access to encrypted data blocks.

## Conclusion

- Today was a 5/10 productivity... I felt tired throughout most of the day. Mainly due to the fact that I didn't drink any coffee.

- **The Good:**

  - I got a good amount of learning finished for my computer security class.
  - I did all my errands for the week like grocery shopping and cooking.
  - I also went to the gym, and I woke up at 6:30AM.

- **The Bad:**

  - When I got home at around 2:00PM, I was very tired. I wasn't able to do much work today after this point besides my errands.

- **How to improve:**
  - I think it is good that I did the errands on this day when I am tired and unable to focus. However, I want to work on easier tasks in future instances like this such as practicing my JavaScript fundamentals.

## Schedule for Tomorrow

**7:00AM - 9:00AM:** Finish Intro to SWE Lab Assignment 1

**9:00AM - 11:30AM:** Work on Intro to Computer Security Lab

**12:000PM - 2:00PM:** Intro to SWE Lecture & Lab

**2:30P - 5:00PM:** LAEP Project (Begin training a 3rd party LLM Model in Python)

**7:300PM - 9:00PM:** Gym

**10:00PM:** Sleep
