---
title: "April 15, 2024"
bio: "Continuing to work on Projects and Security Lecture"
priority1: "LAEP Project"
priority2: Work on CCC-Helper"
priority3: "Intro to Security Lecture"
---

# April 15, 2024

- Today, I will spend most of time working on my coding projects. I will also attend lecture & lab today for my intro to security class

## CCC-Helper Project

- Today, I began implementing functionality for the homepage to work through more than 100,000 different combinations of articulation agreements. Using the large JSON file from yesterday that has the unique id for every major at every community college matched with every university had some difficulties.
  - **Problem:** I ran into an issue with my approach of receiving the dropdown values for the information given from the user. I wanted to find the most efficient approach to find the correct information for a list of majors given the user's community college and transfer university.
  - **Solution:** On the back-end, I created a folder for every community college. In this folder I had two main sections.
    1. **univs.json:** This file contained all the universities that had agreements with the community college. I got information like name, code, and year (e.g. name: University of California San Diego, code: UCSD, year: 74) The year being 74 is and id matching to the school year 2023-2024. This just means that the school has agreements with the community college for the school year 2023-2024.
    2. **[code]\_[id].json**: This represented the university and their ID (e.g.Filename would look like `UCSD_7`). In this file, it would contain the information of the majors for that university. It would also contain the unique id needed to access the PDF articulation agreement.
    - **Overall:** With this approach, I can now access a specific smaller JSON files for necessary data instead of searching through a 150,000+ line JSON file.

## Intro to Computer Security Lecture & Lab

- In today's lecture, we learned about Public keys, Diffie-Hellman key, and a Man-in-the-middle attack.

  - Public Key Cryptography where users have 2 keys.

  1. **Public Key:** A key that is available openly that many people can view
  2. **Private Key:** A key that stays completely private to the user
     - It never leaves the local machine on where it was created.

## LAEP Project

- Today, I began working working on I will implement firebase authorization to only allow users to use the chatbot that register with their CalPoly E-mail. I learned the following:

  - I will need to use Microsoft Azure to configure a Microsoft Identity Platform
  - I will to enable the Microsoft Provider in the firebase console.
  - In my React App, I will need to implement a sign-in page that works with secure routes.
    - I will also need to create an authentication state to show/hide components based on whether the user is authorized.

- I will go about implementing firebase authorization by doing a smaller project working with firebase before I implement this into my LAEP Project.

## Conclusion

- Today was an 6/10 productivity-wise.

- **The Good:**

  - In the morning, I got a lot of work done considering I only worked from 6:00AM - 9:00AM before I had to leave for class. In class, I also learned a good amount about public key cryptography.

- ## **The Bad:**

  - After lecture & lab, I had to fix some things with my school system that took about 2 hours. Once I got home, at around 4:00PM, I wasn't able to be productive for the rest of the day.

## Schedule for Tomorrow

**6:00AM - 9:00AM:** Work on CCC-Helper

**10:00AM - 11:00AM:** Research into Firebase Auth

**12:00M - 1:00PM:** Info Session meeting for SquareSpace

**2:00PM - 4:30PM:** LAEP Project

**5:00PM - 6:00PM:** Work on Blog Posts.

**7:00PM - 8:30PM:** Gym

**10:00PM:** Sleep
