---
title: "April 2, 2024"
bio: "First day of Spring quarter 2024"
priority1: "Attend class"
priority2: "Get familiarized with the course material"
priority3: "Do any non-technical errands"
---

# April 2, 2024

Today is the first day of classes for the Spring quarter, so I will take it light today and just focus on preparing myself for this quarter.

This quarter I will take the following:

**Intro to Software Engineering**(CSC 307)

**Intro to Computer Security**(CSC 321)

**Small Group Communication**(COMS 217)

I strategically planned my Spring quarter load to be light, so I can spend more building the LAEP chatbot, and preparing for my Summer internship at SquareSpace! I truly believe that the work I have been putting in, and the work I will continue to put in will help me land a full-time offer at Squarespace once I graduate in Spring 2025!

## Intro to Computer Security (CSC 321)

**Exciting topics**

- The course will be structured to present a new module every week for 10 weeks. While every topic seems interesting and important, here are the top 3 I am looking forward to the most:
  1. Module 4: **User Authentication**
  2. Module 8: **Web Security**
  3. Module 9: **Social Engineering**

## Intro to Software Engineering (CSC 307)

**Exciting topics**

- While this class does not officially start until tomorrow, I have looked at the course material through the syllabus, and I am extremely excited about this class. Here are some of the topics that interest me the most:

  1. Web APIs
  2. Linking Frontend to Backend
  3. DataBase Integration

- Since, I have experience with building multiple web applications, and I have already learned most of these topics, I am looking forward to build a complex project under the guidance of my instructor.

## Small Group Communication (COMS 217)

- I chose to do this class, although it was not required, to learn useful tips on how to work in a team environment.
- I believe this class will help me out in my professional environment when working with teams on big projects.

**The Best Part**

- The most exciting part about this class, is the tools and technologies we will be using. We will use React, Node Js, Express, and MongoDB to build real-world applications. These are all the tools I have been learning on my spare time, so I am excited to use them in a class setting!

## 🔜 Next Steps

- While today, was a light day, the next steps moving forward is to participate in class and attend office hours.
- Both of my computer science professors have decades of experience in the industry, and I am excited to talk to them about their experience!
