---
title: "April 11, 2024"
bio: "School & LAEP Project"
priority1: "Intro to Security Lecture & Lab"
priority2: "LAEP Streaming Feature"
---

# April 11, 2024

- Today, I will attend my intro to computer security class and continue working on the LAEP Project.

## Intro to Computer Security Lecture

- Today's lecture consisted on `integrity` in symmetric key cryptography. We learned about the following topics:

  - **Unkey hashes:** Take an input and return a fixed-size string of bytes. This verifies data integrity to ensure the data has not been altered since it was hashed, since the resulting hash would be different if just a single bit of the input data changes. A Proper secure hash function has the following properties:

    - **One-way Resistant:** Impossible to derive the original input from its hash value.
    - **Weak collision resistance:** Given an input, it is difficult to find a 2nd input that produce the same hash output. "Given x it should be difficult to find x' where h(x') = h(x)"
    - **Strong collision resistance:** Difficult to find any 2 different inputs that produce the same output. Finding any 2 different inputs x & x' where x != x should never produce the same hash output H(x) != H(x').

  - **Birthday Problem in Cryptographic Hash Function:** Finding a collision in a hash function requires much fewer possible outputs due the combination of possibilities for a collision to occur. EX: A hash function that produces 128-bit values has 2^128 possible outputs. Finding a collision can be expected after generating approx. 2^64 random inputs.
    - **Solutions:** Increase hash length, maintain hash functions, and use `cryptographic secure hash functions`.
  - **Merkle-Damgard:** A method of building collision-resistant cryptographic hash functions from a one-way compression function. Takes as input a fixed-size block of data and a fixed-size piece of state and returns a new state that also has a fixed size.
    - **Length Extension Weakness:** A vulnerability where if an attackers knows the hash of a data block and the length of a block, they can compute the hash of a data block without knowing the original data block. This led to a new hashing algorithm like SHA-3.
  - **Secure Hash Algorithms:** A family of cryptographic hash functions to ensure data integrity and security. Used in SSL/TLS for secure communications, digital signatures, integrity verification software downloads & files.
    - SHA-3 is the latest version
  - **Message Authentication (MAC):** Verifies integrity and authentication of a message. Protects data from being tampered with & ensure message comes from a verified source.
    - Similar to digital signatures but used in a symmetric key context, where same key is used to generate and verify the MAC.
    - 2 Types of Macs:
    1. Hash-based Message Authentication Code **(HMAC):** Combines cryptographic hash functions (e.g. SHA-256) w/ as secret key. Hash the combined input of the message and the key in a way that protects against hashing the combination directly.
    2. Cipher-based Message Authentication Code **(CMAC):** Similar to HMAC but uses a block cipher instead of a hash function. Applies the block cipher multiple times to the message and a secret key to produce a MAC.

## LAEP Streaming Feature

- Successfully implemented the streaming feature to handle real-time updates from the OpenAI API, where responses are rendered incrementally as they are received.
- **Server Side Implementation:**

  - The response is accessed from OpenAI API via a readable stream.
  - Each chunk read from the stream is immediately written to the HTTP response.
  - Once all the data is read, the response stream is closed.

- **Client Side (React) Implementation:**
  - State Management: Utilizing my existing array of messages, I update its current bot message that stores the responses from the server
  - Fetching the streaming data is used by a handler function that sends a POST request to the server where the request's body contains the user's query.
  - Handling Streamed Data: The response is a stream that is accessed via reader (`response.body.getReader()`)
    - A while loop reads chunks from the stream
    - Each chunk is decoded from a `Uint8Array` into a string and and split into separate messages by newlines
    - Each valid JSON chunk is an incremental update to the ChatMessage component
    - Overall, the client processes these chunks incrementally, and updates the UI w/ each new piece of data.

## Conclusion

- Today was a 7.5/10 productivity-wise. I accomplished a lot of work and completed the streaming feature for the LAEP chatbot, which was great!

## Schedule for Tomorrow

- I will take a light day tomorrow, since I am giving a friend from community college a tour of CalPoly, and attending a meeting with my advisor for the LAEP meeting.

**8:00AM - 10:00AM:** Relaxing morning, make breakfast and clean around the house.

**10:40AM - 11:00AM:** Test LAEP project and Next JS static project. (develop new ideas)

**12:00PM - 1:00PM:** Intro to SWE Lecture

**1:00PM - 2:00PM:** LAEP Meeting

**2:30PM - 4:00PM:** Tour around campus

**5:00PM - 6:30PM:** Gym

**10:00PM:** Sleep
