---
title: "April 10, 2024"
bio: "Continue working on school assignments"
priority1: "Intro to SWE Lecture"
priority2: "Lab Assignments"
---

# April 10, 2024

- Today, I will focus on my intro to swe class. I have lecture this afternoon, and I will also complete the lab assignment due this Friday.

## Intro to SWE Lab Assignment.

- Today I completed the lab assignment where I implemented the front-end of a simple web application using React where a user can update a table component on the home page.

  - In the lab, students learned about npm, monorepos, git, react (state, props, and component hierarchy)
  - You can access this repo [here](https://github.com/Castro19/csc-307-app)

## Intro to SWE Lecture & Lab

- In today's lecture, we learned about git branches, merge vs rebase, and dealing with conflicts. I have learned all of these topics before, except for rebase. The class was also shown photos breaking down exactly how git manages these commands, which was really helpful.

  - **Branching:** Diverge from the main line of development and continue working independently of the main source of code.
    - Allows for parallel development, bug fixing, and more!

- **Merge vs Rebase:**

  - **git merge** `feature-branch`: On the target branch (e.g. main), this will merge the code on the `feature-branch` to the our current branch.

    1. git checkout main
    2. git pull
    3. git merge feature-a

- **Rebase:** Re-write the commit history by moving the entire feature branch to begin from the tip of the target branch.
  - Results in a cleaner, linear history that is easier to follow.
- **git rebase** `target-branch`: On the feature branch, this will merge the code from the target branch to our current branch (e.g. feature-b)

  1. git checkout feature-b
  2. git fetch origin # Gets the latest changes from all branches
  3. git rebase origin/main
  4. git rebase --continue # Resolve any conflicts from rebase process, then after resolving conflicts, continue the rebase
  5. git checkout main # Once the rebase is complete, switch back to main branch
     git merge feature-b # Then Merge feature-b

  - Since feature-b is now based directly on the latest commit in `main`, this merge should be a "fast-forward", meaning no new merge commits is necessary and the project history will be linear.

- Overall, use `merge` when you want to preserve the history of the feature branch including how the features were developed and integrated over time. Use `rebase` when you want to have a clean project history before integrating changes back into a shared branch (e.g. main).
- In my opinion, I will begin to use `rebase` a lot more in my development when I am testing deployment code.
  - I ran into an issue a couple of days ago, where I messed up my commit history by merging my branch into main that had many commits that were used to test the deployment of my LAEP project.
  - I wish I had known about rebase beforehand to avoid my main branch commit history receiving these commits from the branch to test deployment.

## Conclusion

- Today was a 6/10 productivity-wise. I completed a lot in the morning for my classes, which was great! However, I am still having an issue of feeling very tired once I arrive back home after classes.

- **The Good:** I completed my Intro to SWE Lab assignment, and I did the first task for my Intro to Computer Security lab assignment.

  - I also learned a new useful git command that I will begin utilizing more.

- **The Bad:** When I got home after class, I ate lunch and fell asleep afterwards. I wasn't really productive during the time 3:00PM - 5:00PM
  - **A potential fix:** I would like to begin waking up earlier at around 5:30AM to have more time in the morning before class to be productive.
    - I will also go to the gym earlier and sleep earlier as a result.

## Exciting Next Project Idea

- For my Intro to SWE class, I am required to work in a team and build a software application. The project I want to do is to open-source my [existing Summer project](https://www.ccc-sep.com/).
  - I want to re-create this project using React, NodeJS or Python Flask for the back-end, and PostgreSQL or MongoDB for the database.
  - The technologies I will continue to use involve Amazon S3 buckets, Redis, Assist API, and sendgrid.
  - I also want to include new features like an AI counselor as a chatbot to help users.

## Schedule for Tomorrow

**7:00AM - 9:00AM:** Review topics for Computer Security Lecture

**9:40AM - 1:00PM:** Intro to Computer Security Lecture & Lab

**1:00PM - 2:00PM:** Practicing Git commands

**2:30PM - 5:00PM:** LAEP Project

**7:300PM - 9:00PM:** Gym

**10:00PM:** Sleep
