---
title: "April 13, 2024"
bio: "Finishing up School Assignments"
priority1: "Intro to Security Lab"
priority2: "Intro to SWE Lab"
---

# April 13, 2024

- Today, I will try to finish the labs due this upcoming week. I also started off my day early by waking up at 5:30AM, I will try to wake up at this time everyday.

## Intro to Computer Security Lab

- I won't go in-depth on this lab in this blog post, but I will attach a link to the ReadME I created for this lab assignment.

  - Link: []()

  - This lab took a lot longer than I expected as I spent a lot of time figuring out the correct approach.

  - Through this lab, I realized that computer security does not require a lot of code, but instead relies on a deep understanding of the vulnerabilities in systems. By utilizing a byte flipping attack, I was successfully able to modify the ciphertext and break the security's intergrity.

## Intro to SWE Lab

- This was a very basic lab assignment that was just meant to teach us on how to use Node JS and express.

## LAEP Research

- I got some great ideas from yesteday's meeting with my advisor. I wanted to research more into these ideas to construct an approach on how I will implement these new features. I researched on the following topics:
  - What makes a great senior project
  - Where to webscrape CalPoly advisor data
  - Potential web scraping of previous senior projects.
  - How to work with OpenAI agents.
  - Implementation of databases and firebase.

## Conclusion

- Today was a 7/10 productivity-wise. I completed a good amount of school work, and I can focus on the projects.

- **The Good:**

  - I woke up at 5:30AM, and I accomplished a good amount of work.

- **The Bad:**
  - I got stuck troubleshooting my intro to security lab. I learned that I should get a good understanding of my attack approach before I begin to code anything.

## Schedule for Tomorrow

**6:00AM - 9:00AM:** Work on the LAEP project (manage strucuture of context vars)

**9:00AM - 11:00AM:** Practice TypeScript

**11:00AM - 3:00PM:** Start the CCC-SEP Project

**3:30PM - 4:30PM:** Finish Intro to Security Lab

**5:00PM - 6:30PM:** Gym

**10:00PM:** Sleep
