---
title: "April 8, 2024"
bio: "1st meeting for LAEP Chatbot"
priority1: "LAEP chatbot meeting"
priority2: "Intro to Security Lab"
priority3: "Intro to SWE Class"
---

# April 8, 2024

Today, I will organize a meeting for the LAEP chatbot with the other students assigned to this project. I will also work on my two other classes.

## LAEP Chatbot Meeting

- Today's meeting agenda will introduce the project's scope current progress, and future objectives. I created agenda, and I will assign tasks to complete in the github repo section for my teammates.

- **Team Members:** 2 other team members from CalPoly and 1 team member from Cuesta College.

- **Project Scope:** Create a chatbot AI to help CalPoly students with their senior project.

- **Future Objectives:** Create authentication, implement an open source LLM trained on our data, deploy bot online for CalPoly students to use.

- **Meeting Highlights:** I instructed all team members how to clone their repo on their local machine and push changes to the main repository. We assigned features and deadlines for when those features should be completed.

  - The meeting was about 2 hours, which is longer than our future meetings will be. However, this was due to the following reasons:

    1. It was the first meeting.
    2. We had a lot of topics to discuss
    3. The installation and setup of the project also took about 45 minutes.

    - For future meetings, I will try to keep them between 45 minutes to an hour.

## School Work for the day

- For my computer security class, I had to finish up a lab assignment [here](https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/bandit0.html)

  - I learned useful UNIX commands and I got to level 26, which took longer than I was expecting for the 1st lab assignment of the class.

## 🔜 Next Steps

- **LAEP Project:** I will have each team member add their name to the ReadMe github repo by committing a pull request. This will be the first pull request, so they can begin creating their own branches and making changes.

## Conclusion

- Overall, today was an 8.5/10 Productivity wise. I didn't have too much time to write this blog post, so I am doing it on 04/09/2024. This is also why the blog post is shorter than usual.

**The Good:**

- Today, I spent my time working on the LAEP project by getting the bot set up to present and creating an agenda for the meeting. I also spent a lot of time rushing to get this lab assignment in.

  **The Reason:**

- I truly enjoy working on the LAEP project, and I was excited to showcase the current progress to the other students.
  - This caused me to prepare for this meeting with an agenda, and why I was helping them get the project setup on their end.
- **The Bad:** While I was working for most of the day, I did end up working on the lab assignment for my class until 11:00PM. - I underestimated the time it would take to complete the first lab assignment as the levels got exponentially harder. - I also procrastinated to complete this lab because I was more focused on the LAEP project.

  - **The fix:** Managing time better early on, and making sure I complete my school work first.

  - **Counter-Argument:** While I do not want to be working until 11:00PM every night, this was one of my most productive days. Partially due to the feeling that I had to complete this lab assignment before class tomorrow.

## Schedule for Tomorrow

**7:00AM - 9:00AM:** Work on Intro to Security class Lab Assignment

**9:40AM - 2:00PM:** Intro to Computer Security Lecture & Lab

**3:000PM - 5:00PM:** Begin working on next Lab assignment for Intro to Security

**6:00P - 7:00PM:** JS Coding Problems!

**7:300PM - 9:00PM:** Gym

**10:00PM:** Sleep
