---
title: "April 15, 2024"
bio: "Continuing to work on Projects and Security Lecture"
priority1: "LAEP Project"
priority2: Work on CCC-Helper"
priority3: "Squarespace Info Session"
---

# April 15, 2024

- Today, I will begin working on handling the routes from the back-end to the front-end on the CCC-Helper project.

## CCC-Helper Project

- Today, I began implementing functionality for the homepage to work through more than 100,000 different combinations of articulation agreements. Using the large JSON file from yesterday that has the unique id for every major at every community college matched with every university had some difficulties.
  - **Problem:** I ran into an issue with my approach of receiving the dropdown values for the information given from the user. I wanted to find the most efficient approach to find the correct information for a list of majors given the user's community college and transfer university.
  - **Solution:** On the back-end, I created a folder for every community college. In this folder I had two main sections.
    1. **univs.json:** This file contained all the universities that had agreements with the community college. I got information like name, code, and year (e.g. name: University of California San Diego, code: UCSD, year: 74) The year being 74 is and id matching to the school year 2023-2024. This just means that the school has agreements with the community college for the school year 2023-2024.
    2. **[code]\_[id].json**: This represented the university and their ID (e.g.Filename would look like `UCSD_7`). In this file, it would contain the information of the majors for that university. It would also contain the unique id needed to access the PDF articulation agreement.
    - **Overall:** With this approach, I can now access a specific smaller JSON files for necessary data instead of searching through a 150,000+ line JSON file.

## Intro to Computer Security Lecture & Lab

- In today's lecture, we learned about Public keys, Diffie-Hellman key, and a Man-in-the-middle attack.

  - Public Key Cryptography where users have 2 keys.

  1. **Public Key:** A key that is available openly that many people can view
  2. **Private Key:** A key that stays completely private to the user
     - It never leaves the local machine on where it was created.

## LAEP Project

- Today, I began working on two new features for the LAEP project that will be done in groups.
  1. **Web Scraping:** I created a google colab notebook and began the function to web scrape data from the calpoly CS faculy website. I shared this document with the two other students working on this project.
  2. **Firebase Auth:** I began a small beginner firebase project to familarize myself with firebase. I also shared this github repo with the other teammate who is working on this with me.

## Conclusion

- Today was an 7/10 productivity-wise.

- **The Good:**

  - In the morning, I got a lot of work done on the CCC-Helper project. I also enjoyed the info session meeting for SquareSpace, and I will be living in Brooklyn Heights!

- ## **The Bad:**

  - I think I researched too much into Brooklyn heights today, and I wish I would have remained focused and looked more into the place later in the day when I am winding down. Overall, today was a great day, the projects are working smoothly, and I am excited for my Summer internship!

## Schedule for Tomorrow

**6:00AM - 9:00AM:** Work on CCC-Helper

**10:00AM - 11:00AM:** Research into Firebase Auth

**12:00M - 1:00PM:** Info Session meeting for SquareSpace

**2:00PM - 4:30PM:** LAEP Project

**5:00PM - 6:00PM:** Work on Blog Posts.

**7:00PM - 8:30PM:** Gym

**10:00PM:** Sleep
