---
title: "April 5, 2024"
bio: "Software improvements for Next JS app"
priority1: "Work on Next.js Static Blog Site"
priority2: "Work on LAEP chatbot"
priority3: "Work on School assignments"
---

# April 5, 2024

Today, I will work on my Next.js static blog site and learn more on the concepts on Next JS. I will also work on the LAEP chatbot, and I will implement a new feature for the chatbot.

**Intro to SWE Lecture**

- In today's lecture, I learned some useful knowledge on two topics:

  1. **NPM Scripts:** I learned how to create my own script commands in `package.json`.

  2. **NPM Workspaces:** I learned how to use a workspace in my monorepo.

  This allowed me to create script commands that would run my client and server in a single command. Here are the steps I took to accomplish this:

  1. In the Root directory of the github repo, run `npm init`

  2. This will create a package.json, optionally, we can add this into the file to specify this that we are making a monorepo and the packages will be located in a folder called `packages`:

  - In the `package.json` add: `'workspaces': ['packages/*']`

  3. Also add our scripts:

  ```
    "scripts": {
      "start:Client": "cd Client && npm run dev",
      "start:server": "cd server && node index.js",
      "start:dev": "concurrently \"npm run start:Client\" \"npm run start:server\""
  },
  ```

  4. Run application using: `npm run start:dev`

## Working on Next JS Static Blog Site

- Today, I wanted to simplify my Blog site application by handling dynamic segments [slug] to use `catch-all` subsequent segments.

  - **Problem:** I was organizing the blog posts in sub-directories by month to organize my file structure. This approach made it so I had to create a seperate sub-folder and page.js for each sub directory (month). I wanted to keep the file structure but make it so I ponly needed one page.js for all the months.

  - **Solution:** While reading through the documentation, I found my solution [here](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/dynamic-routes)

    - I am now structuring the posts to be handled like this:
      `/app/post/[...slug]/page.js`
    - In my page.js, my slug now comes in as an array of the file paths.
      - For example a post that is in this route /posts/april/april-05-2024 now has a slug of `['april', 'april-05-2024']`

## LAEP Chatbot

- The feature I added today was creating a header and adding different modes for the chatbot. For this project, the 3 main modes are:

  1. **Normal Mode:** Give responses in a normal and structured way

  2. **Senior Project Ethical Advisor:** Give ethical considerations on a Senior project and guide students in the correct direction.

  3. **Advisor Matching:** Based on student's information provided, match them with the best advisor available.

- This feature is now implemented at the front-end, however, we can make a lot of adjustments to the back-end by fine-tuning the model and giving background info on advisors.

## 🔜 Next Steps

- Tomorrow, I will continue working on the LAEP Chatbot, and adding other features with the header like a sidebar menu containing previous chat logs.

- I will also work on features for the static blog-site's navigation. I would like to add a filter option to categorize by month.

## Conclusion

- Overall, today was a 6/10 productivity wise.
  - I woke up later than usual at 7:30AM, and I had trouble focusing on work after class.
  - However, I did make a lot of progress on the chatbot and blog site, and I finished my first lab assignment for Intro to SWE.

## Schedule for Tomorrow

**7:00AM - 9:00AM:** Work on React concepts

**9:00AM - 11:30AM:** Work on LAEP project

**12:00PM - 2:00PM:** Work on Next JS Static Blog Site

**2:30PM - 5:00PM:** Get a head start on school work for next week

**6:00P - 7:00PM:** Coding Problems?

**7:300PM - 9:00PM:** Gym

**10:00PM:** Sleep
