---
Title: CSC-321 Public Key Crypto
---

# Module 3 Public Key Cryptograhy & Digital Signature

## RSA

- Public Key Cryptography where users have 2 keys.
  1. **Public Key:** A key that is available openly that many people can view
  2. **Private Key:** A key that stays completely private to the user
     - It never leaves the local machine on where it was created.

### Encryption Example

- Person1 wants to send a message to Person 2.
  1. Person1 encrypts the message with Person2's public key
  2. Person2 decrypts the message with their own private key.

### Digital Signature Example

- Person1 wants to sign a message to make sure their message is sent to person2 securely

- Verifies `integrity` by making sure the message is sent from the known person and

- Verifies `authorization`

- Does not verify `confidentiality`

### Questions:

1. For encryption who has the public key?
   - Everyone (Alice)
2. What is the public key used for?
   - d
3. For encryption who has the private key?
   - Bob
4. What is the private key used for?

5. For signing who has the public key?

6. Wh

## Diffie-Hellman Key

- Public key and the result is a secret that is used to generate a symmetric key.

- No authentication and can be vulnerable to `Man-in-the-middle` attack.

### One-way Trap-door Function

- d

## Prerequisite Knowledge

### Modular Math

### Discrete Logarithms

- Find x s.t y = a^x mod(n)

### Main-in-the-middle attack

- Person1 wants to send a message to Person2, but Person3 is planning an attack.
  1. Person1 sends their message
  2. Person3 receeives the message from Person1

## Review

- Key Distribution challenges: Difficulty to d

## Lab

### Task 1

- Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange:
  - Look at the slides for the implementation
  - Find the appropritate f'n that works with big ints and modulous
  - Truncate in any way in the SHA256(s)
  - Do CBC with the k we created above
  - Use the same IV
  -

### Task 2

- ## Man in the Middle Attack
